Go is a new language. Although it borrows ideas from existing languages, it has unusual properties that make effective Go programs different in character from programs written in its relatives. A straightforward translation of a C++ or Java program into Go is unlikely to produce a satisfactory result—Java programs are written in Java, not Go. On the other hand, thinking about the problem from a Go perspective could produce a successful but quite different program. In other words, to write Go well, it's important to understand its properties and idioms. It's also important to know the established conventions for programming in Go, such as naming, formatting, program construction, and so on, so that programs you write will be easy for other Go programmers to understand.

This document gives tips for writing clear, idiomatic Go code. It augments the language specification, the Tour of Go, and How to Write Go Code, all of which you should read first.

Note added January, 2022: This document was written for Go's release in 2009, and has not been updated significantly since. Although it is a good guide to understand how to use the language itself, thanks to the stability of the language, it says little about the libraries and nothing about significant changes to the Go ecosystem since it was written, such as the build system, testing, modules, and polymorphism. There are no plans to update it, as so much has happened and a large and growing set of documents, blogs, and books do a fine job of describing modern Go usage. Effective Go continues to be useful, but the reader should understand it is far from a complete guide. See issue 28782 for context.

Examples
The Go package sources are intended to serve not only as the core library but also as examples of how to use the language. Moreover, many of the packages contain working, self-contained executable examples you can run directly from the golang.org web site, such as this one (if necessary, click on the word "Example" to open it up). If you have a question about how to approach a problem or how something might be implemented, the documentation, code and examples in the library can provide answers, ideas and background.

// This is from the second commit

Formatting
Formatting issues are the most contentious but the least consequential. People can adapt to different formatting styles but it's better if they don't have to, and less time is devoted to the topic if everyone adheres to the same style. The problem is how to approach this Utopia without a long prescriptive style guide.

With Go we take an unusual approach and let the machine take care of most formatting issues. The gofmt program (also available as go fmt, which operates at the package level rather than source file level) reads a Go program and emits the source in a standard style of indentation and vertical alignment, retaining and if necessary reformatting comments. If you want to know how to handle some new layout situation, run gofmt; if the answer doesn't seem right, rearrange your program (or file a bug about gofmt), don't work around it.

As an example, there's no need to spend time lining up the comments on the fields of a structure. Gofmt will do that for you. Given the declaration

type T struct {
    name string // name of the object
    value int // its value
}
gofmt will line up the columns:


// Add 3rd commit
type T struct {
    name    string // name of the object
    value   int    // its value
}
All Go code in the standard packages has been formatted with gofmt.

Some formatting details remain. Very briefly:

Indentation
We use tabs for indentation and gofmt emits them by default. Use spaces only if you must.
Line length
Go has no line length limit. Don't worry about overflowing a punched card. If a line feels too long, wrap it and indent with an extra tab.
Parentheses
Go needs fewer parentheses than C and Java: control structures (if, for, switch) do not have parentheses in their syntax. Also, the operator precedence hierarchy is shorter and clearer, so
x<<8 + y<<16
means what the spacing implies, unlike in the other languages.
Commentary
Go provides C-style /* */ block comments and C++-style // line comments. Line comments are the norm; block comments appear mostly as package comments, but are useful within an expression or to disable large swaths of code.

The program—and web server—godoc processes Go source files to extract documentation about the contents of the package. Comments that appear before top-level declarations, with no intervening newlines, are extracted along with the declaration to serve as explanatory text for the item. The nature and style of these comments determine the quality of the documentation godoc produces.

Every package should have a package comment, a block comment preceding the package clause. For multi-file packages, the package comment only needs to be present in one file, and any one will do. The package comment should introduce the package and provide information relevant to the package as a whole. It will appear first on the godoc page and should set up the detailed documentation that follows.

/*
Package regexp implements a simple library for regular expressions.

The syntax of the regular expressions accepted is:

    regexp:
        concatenation { '|' concatenation }
    concatenation:
        { closure }
    closure:
        term [ '*' | '+' | '?' ]
    term:
        '^'
        '$'
        '.'
        character
        '[' [ '^' ] character-ranges ']'
        '(' regexp ')'
*/
package regexp
If the package is simple, the package comment can be brief.

// Package path implements utility routines for
// manipulating slash-separated filename paths.
Comments do not need extra formatting such as banners of stars. The generated output may not even be presented in a fixed-width font, so don't depend on spacing for alignment—godoc, like gofmt, takes care of that. The comments are uninterpreted plain text, so HTML and other annotations such as _this_ will reproduce verbatim and should not be used. One adjustment godoc does do is to display indented text in a fixed-width font, suitable for program snippets. The package comment for the fmt package uses this to good effect.

Depending on the context, godoc might not even reformat comments, so make sure they look good straight up: use correct spelling, punctuation, and sentence structure, fold long lines, and so on.

Inside a package, any comment immediately preceding a top-level declaration serves as a doc comment for that declaration. Every exported (capitalized) name in a program should have a doc comment.

Doc comments work best as complete sentences, which allow a wide variety of automated presentations. The first sentence should be a one-sentence summary that starts with the name being declared.

// Compile parses a regular expression and returns, if successful,
// a Regexp that can be used to match against text.
func Compile(str string) (*Regexp, error) {
If every doc comment begins with the name of the item it describes, you can use the doc subcommand of the go tool and run the output through grep. Imagine you couldn't remember the name "Compile" but were looking for the parsing function for regular expressions, so you ran the command,

$ go doc -all regexp | grep -i parse
If all the doc comments in the package began, "This function...", grep wouldn't help you remember the name. But because the package starts each doc comment with the name, you'd see something like this, which recalls the word you're looking for.

$ go doc -all regexp | grep -i parse
    Compile parses a regular expression and returns, if successful, a Regexp
    MustCompile is like Compile but panics if the expression cannot be parsed.
    parsed. It simplifies safe initialization of global variables holding
$
Go's declaration syntax allows grouping of declarations. A single doc comment can introduce a group of related constants or variables. Since the whole declaration is presented, such a comment can often be perfunctory.

// Error codes returned by failures to parse an expression.
var (
    ErrInternal      = errors.New("regexp: internal error")
    ErrUnmatchedLpar = errors.New("regexp: unmatched '('")
    ErrUnmatchedRpar = errors.New("regexp: unmatched ')'")
    ...
)
Grouping can also indicate relationships between items, such as the fact that a set of variables is protected by a mutex.

var (
    countLock   sync.Mutex
    inputCount  uint32
    outputCount uint32
    errorCount  uint32
)